>> Kyle Simpson: So what are some of
these operations that we might want to do
with our values?
>> Kyle Simpson: Well, you notice here,
on line one, I've got a 3, and
then a plus and then a 4.
So I've got two numbers
that I wanna add together.
Or I've got the number 43,
and a minus and a 1, and
I wanna subtract one number
from the other, okay?
So those are basic arithmetic,
if you will.
You probably learned this back
in kindergarten, first grade.
Basic arithmetic that you can
express in your programs.
And you don't often write them
out literally, like 3 plus 4.
Often, those values will
be inside of variables.
And we'll talk about
that in just a moment.
But it is possible for
you to just do straight up math, or
any other sort of operation.
For example, line four, you'll notice
that I also have a plus operator.
But I don't have numbers here,
I have strings.
And one of the peculiarities of JavaScript
is that it uses the plus operator to mean
two different things depending on what
kind of values we've got in the operation.
And so,
when we have string involved in the plus,
we do what's called
a string concatenation,
which is like just smooching two
strings together, that's all it means.
And when there's two numbers involved,
that's math.
So that plus operator, there's
a fancy term for this in programming,
it's called overloaded.
It means that it has more
than one kind of behavior,
depending upon the values
that are involved in.
By the way,
I keep talking about involve in.
What do I mean here?
Well, operators have
what are called operands.
And an operand is the value that is
going to be operated on by the operator.
So on line one, 3 plus 4,
the operator is plus, it's an addition,
a numeric addition.
And the two operands are 3 and 4.
Oftentimes, we might refer to them as
the left operand, which would be 3,
and then the right operand,
which would be 4.
Those kinds of operators, ones that
have a left and a right in terms of
their operands, those kinds of
operators are called binary operators.
And binary is just a fancy term for
it means there's two involved.
So we have binary operators,
like plus and minus.
But you notice on line six, I've got
a special character, the exclamation mark.
That's a different kind of operator.
That's what we call a unary operator.
Unary means one,
kind of like in Spanish uno means one,
you can think unary means one.
So unary means a single operand
involved in the operation.
And here, we have the false,
the exclamation mark does what we
call flipping of a Boolean value, or
the negation or
the compliment of a Boolean value.
So remember how I said Booleans
can only be false or true.
So if we start out with false and
we wanna flip it to the other one,
we're gonna get true.
And if we were to start out with
the exclamation mark and true and flip it,
we'd get false, right?
Now, line eight shows
a different kind of operator.
Still, that is a binary operator,
but it's not actually producing
sort of a different kind of value.
Here, it's doing what we call comparison.
It's saying does the value
on the left-hand side and
the value on the right- hand side,
do they have some sort of relationship
that we can determine something about?
In this case, we're using the double
equals operator, which is the equals or
what we call the Lucy quality operator.
It's saying,
are these two values equal to each other?
>> Kyle Simpson: By the way,
you may have heard inequality, and
we'll get into this in a little while.
You may have heard inequality,
in JavaScript that there's two different
equality comparison operators.
There's this double equals one, and
then there's the triple equals one.
And there's a lot of nuanced
distinction between the two.
I'm gonna try to help you juggle some
of that later in our discussion in
this course.
But for right now, you should know
that in this particular case,
they wouldn't have done
anything differently.
We would have gotten the exact same
result between a double equals and
a triple equals because both
of them are numbers, so
no changing of value
types is even involved.
Thy would have done
exactly the same thing.
So 3.0 and 3, if you remember when I
talked about values a little while ago,
3.0 and 3 are the same kind of value.
They're both numbers, so
they're equal to each other.
Even though in our programming code,
they look slightly different, they're
actually basically the same number,
so that comparison would
tell us that they are equal.
It would return us actually
a Boolean that would say true.
Line 10 is another kind of comparison,
which is less than.
And we know that the number
3 is clearly less than 4.
So again,
when we do that kind of comparison,
we would've gotten a Boolean
true back as well.
Now, line 12 shows us yet
still a different kind of operator.
And these are sort of conditional
operators that are, I'm sorry,
not conditional operators,
they're logical operators.
They basically tried to
decide something for us.
So the double vertical line there,
that's called the or operator.
The single character is called
the pipe character on your keyboard,
if you haven't seen that before.
When we put two of them together,
that's called the or operator.
And so,
it's basically saying tell me if one or
the other of these results in something
that would be we would call Boolean true.
If one or the other results in true,
then I wanna know about that.
Otherwise, we won't do something.
And when we talk about making
decisions in a little while,
you'll get the sense of why you
might wanna do something if one or
the other of these things is true, do it,
and if not, do something different.
So the double pipe operator
is what we call or.
And there's a complement to that
one called the double ampersand.
That little squirrelly character
that nobody can ever write.
That little double ampersand
operator is how we say and.
So that would give us a true
only if both of the things,
both of the operands, were true.
So now, you're starting to get
a sense that there are things that we
wanna do with our values.
And the things that we wanna do
are the kind of operations that we're
gonna perform.
Before we move on, I wanna actually
let you see those expressions,
those operations that we were just
talking about, actually being evaluated.
So you can see here that 3 plus 4,
it evaluated to 7.
And 43 minus 1 it evaluated to 42.
And when I concatenated these two strings
together, you see the string Kyle Simpson.
The negation of false, or the compliment
of false, it evaluates to true.
And 3.0 equals 3.
And by the way, even if I did
a triple equals, it's still true.
Because it's not about type coercion,
it's just that JavaScript treats
these numbers as the same.
We can see that 3 less than
4 is evaluating to true.
But if I were to flip that around and
say 4 less than 3, now,
all of a sudden that one's gonna
change to evaluating to false.
And finally, true or false, of course,
true or false is gonna evaluate the true.
But if I changed it to
the double ampersand, now,
of the sudden, that one was also false.
So definitely, make sure you're familiar
with how these things are evaluating.
It's not always so
great to do it in your head,
sometimes it's great to just run it in
the JavaScript and see what you get.